So welcome back, guys.
Now let us discuss swapping so considered a snapshot of the main memory at some random time when it
has some physical pages in its frames.
Right.
So on the left hand side, you can see the snapshot of the physical memory.
And let us assume that this physical memory is fragmented into seven frames.
And each of these seven frames contains some physical pages.
So SWOP is the operation in which main memory serves the physical page in one of its frame to the secondary
storage and the other page from the secondary storage into the frame.
So you can see that in this diagram, one main memory do not left with a free frame.
It may choose to temporarily stored the physical page on a secondary storage.
So let us try to understand this point with the help of an example.
So, for example, main memory can save a page number three, that is three, which is present in frame
one to swap it with page.
Sorry, this is misspelled.
This is page P five.
So you can see that the physical page P five is present on a secondary storage and we wish to bring
physical page B five into the frame after one of this physical memory.
So what will happen that we will download on to the page B three on the secondary storage?
Right.
And we will copy the page B five into the frame F one of physical memory so that a snapshot of physical
memory would look something like this now.
And some f one physical memory has physical page B five instead of page B3 and page three has been downloaded
or stored on secondary storage.
So this operation of speed swapping is called simply a swap.
So main memory uses various page replacement algorithm to choose which page to be chosen to be replaced
with new page from disk.
It's not random.
Such type of algorithms are fearful or least recently used algorithm, etc..
We will revisit these algorithms later and see how these algorithms are used by the operating system
to select a frame of the physical memory whose physical page needs to be scrapped with a new physical
page which is present on the secondary storage.